# Ooredoo Meeting Room Booking App 

This repository contains the backend & frontend code for the Ooredoo Meeting Room Booking App.

## Setup Instructions - Backend

### Prerequisites
- Node.js installed on your machine. You can download it [here](https://nodejs.org/).

### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://gitlab.com/pfe6041509/meeting_room_booking_app.git
    ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    ```

3. **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Running the Server

1. **Navigate to the Source Directory:**
    ```bash
    cd src
    ```

2. **Start the Server:**
    ```bash
    nodemon app
    ```

### Accessing the API
Once the server is running, you can access the API at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Endpoints
Example:

- **GET /rooms**: Retrieve all available meeting rooms.
- **POST /book**: Book a meeting room.
- **GET /room/:roomId**: Retrieve details of a specific meeting room.


You can find the api documentaion as soon as it's available in this link : `...`

## Environment Variables

This project requires certain environment variables to be set for configuration. These variables are stored in a `.env` file, which is not included in the repository for security reasons. Follow these steps to set up your `.env` file:

1. **Contact Project Owner:**
    If you do not have access to the required environment variables, please contact me to obtain them.

2. **Create `.env` File:**
    - Create a new file named `.env` in the root directory of the project.

3. **Define Environment Variables:**
    - Once you have obtained the required variables, define them in the `.env` file in the following format:
        ```
        VARIABLE_NAME=variable_value
        ```

    Example:
        ```
        DB_HOST=localhost
        PORT=3000
        JWT_LIFETIME=1 day
        ```

4. **Save the File:**
    Save the `.env` file in the root directory of the project.




## Setup Instructions - frontend

### Prerequisites
- Node.js installed on your machine. You can download it [here](https://nodejs.org/).
- Expo CLI installed globally. You can install it via npm:
    ```bash
    npm install -g expo-cli
    ```

### Installation

1. **Navigate to the Frontend Directory:**
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

### Running the App

1. **Start the Development Server:**
    ```bash
    expo start
    ```

2. **Running on Physical Device or Simulator:**
    - Install the Expo Go app on your Android or iOS device.
    - Scan the QR code generated by `expo start` using the Expo Go app.
    - For iOS, you can also run the app on the iOS Simulator by pressing `i` in the terminal after starting the development server.



### Accessing the App
Once the app is successfully running on your device or simulator, you can interact with it directly through the Expo Go app. 
